README.md, before:

# Slack Permission System

A production-ready, declarative permission management system for Slack bots with multi-layer validation, dynamic command filtering, and comprehensive security controls.

## 🚀 Features

- **Declarative Permission Mapping**: Human-readable permission strings tied to commands
- **Multi-Layer Validation**: Permission, input, and context validation pipeline
- **Dynamic Command Filtering**: Users only see commands they can execute
- **Fail-Safe Security**: Default deny with graceful error handling
- **Slack Group Integration**: Leverage native Slack group membership
- **Comprehensive Testing**: 100% test coverage with mocks and integration tests
- **Production Ready**: Logging, monitoring, and error handling built-in

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   Command       │    │   Permission     │    │   User          │
│   Registry      │───▶│   Validator      │───▶│   Manager       │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                       │                       │
         ▼                       ▼                       ▼
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   Help System   │    │   Access Control │    │   Slack Groups  │
│   Generator     │    │   Engine         │    │   Integration   │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
```

## 📦 Installation

```bash
pip install slackbot-permissions
```

## 🔧 Quick Start

```python
from slack_permissions import PermissionManager, CommandRegistry
from slack_bolt import App

# Initialize the permission system
permission_manager = PermissionManager()
command_registry = CommandRegistry()

# Register commands with permissions
@command_registry.command(
    name="delete_user",
    permission="user_management",
    description="Delete a user account"
)
def delete_user_handler(client, message, context):
    # Your command logic here
    pass

# Slack Bolt integration
app = App(token="your-token")

@app.message("delete user")
def handle_delete_user(client, message, context):
    # Validate permissions
    if not permission_manager.validate_request(
        user_id=message['user'],
        command="delete_user",
        client=client
    ):
        return  # Permission denied, user already notified
    
    # Execute command
    delete_user_handler(client, message, context)
```

## 📚 Documentation

- [Getting Started Guide](docs/getting-started.md)
- [API Reference](docs/api-reference.md)
- [Security Guide](docs/security.md)
- [Examples](examples/)

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
pytest

# Run with coverage
pytest --cov=slack_permissions --cov-report=html

# Run integration tests
pytest tests/integration/
```

## 🔒 Security

This system implements security best practices:

- **Default Deny**: All requests denied unless explicitly permitted
- **Input Validation**: Comprehensive validation of all inputs
- **Audit Logging**: All permission decisions logged
- **Fail-Safe Design**: System fails securely on errors
- **No Information Leakage**: Error messages don't expose sensitive data

## 📈 Monitoring

Built-in metrics and logging:

```python
# Metrics exposed
permission_checks_total
permission_denials_total
command_executions_total
validation_errors_total

# Structured logging
logger.info("Permission granted", extra={
    "user_id": user_id,
    "command": command_name,
    "permission": required_permission
})
```

## 🤝 Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for development setup and guidelines.

## 📄 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## 🏆 Why This System?

Most Slack bots implement permissions as an afterthought, leading to:
- Security vulnerabilities
- Poor user experience
- Maintenance nightmares
- Inconsistent behavior

This system puts permissions first, providing:
- **Security by Design**: Every command requires explicit permission
- **Developer Experience**: Simple, declarative API
- **User Experience**: Dynamic help and clear error messages
- **Maintainability**: Clean separation of concerns
- **Scalability**: Handles complex permission hierarchies

Built from real-world experience managing enterprise Slack bots serving hundreds of users across multiple teams and environments.

Commit message:

🔒 Security hardening and environment variable migration
BREAKING CHANGES:
- Removed all hardcoded personal information and repository references
- Migrated to environment variable-based configuration
- Added comprehensive security audit tooling

Security Improvements:
✅ Environment variable configuration for all metadata
✅ Secure defaults with no hardcoded secrets
✅ Enhanced .gitignore for sensitive files
✅ Security audit script with smart pattern detection
✅ Configuration validation utilities
✅ Comprehensive documentation for secure deployment

Configuration Changes:
- setup.py: Uses PACKAGE_* environment variables
- __init__.py: Dynamic author/URL from environment
- CI/CD: Configurable Docker registry
- Documentation: Generic repository references

New Features:
- Security audit script (scripts/security_audit.py)
- Configuration utilities (src/slack_permissions/utils/config.py)
- Environment configuration guide (docs/configuration.md)
- .env.example with all configuration options

Migration Guide:
Set these environment variables before building/deploying:
- PACKAGE_AUTHOR: Your name
- PACKAGE_AUTHOR_EMAIL: Your email
- PACKAGE_URL: Your repository URL
- DOCKER_REGISTRY: Your Docker registry

This ensures the package can be safely forked and deployed
without exposing personal information or hardcoded values.

README.md, after:

# Slack Permission System

A production-ready, declarative permission management system for Slack bots with multi-layer validation, dynamic command filtering, and comprehensive security controls.

## 🚀 Features

- **Declarative Permission Mapping**: Human-readable permission strings tied to commands
- **Multi-Layer Validation**: Permission, input, and context validation pipeline
- **Dynamic Command Filtering**: Users only see commands they can execute
- **Fail-Safe Security**: Default deny with graceful error handling
- **Slack Group Integration**: Leverage native Slack group membership
- **Comprehensive Testing**: 100% test coverage with mocks and integration tests
- **Production Ready**: Logging, monitoring, and error handling built-in

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   Command       │    │   Permission     │    │   User          │
│   Registry      │───▶│   Validator      │───▶│   Manager       │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                       │                       │
         ▼                       ▼                       ▼
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   Help System   │    │   Access Control │    │   Slack Groups  │
│   Generator     │    │   Engine         │    │   Integration   │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
```

## 📦 Installation

```bash
pip install slackbot-permissions
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

The package uses environment variables for configuration. Create a `.env` file:

```bash
# Copy the example configuration
cp .env.example .env

# Edit with your values
SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=xoxb-your-bot-token-here  # Replace with your actual token
SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET=your-signing-secret  # Replace with your actual secret
```

For detailed configuration options, see the [Configuration Guide](docs/configuration.md).

## 🔧 Quick Start

```python
from slack_permissions import PermissionManager, CommandRegistry
from slack_bolt import App

# Initialize the permission system
permission_manager = PermissionManager()
command_registry = CommandRegistry()

# Register commands with permissions
@command_registry.command(
    name="delete_user",
    permission="user_management",
    description="Delete a user account"
)
def delete_user_handler(client, message, context):
    # Your command logic here
    pass

# Slack Bolt integration
app = App(token="your-token")

@app.message("delete user")
def handle_delete_user(client, message, context):
    # Validate permissions
    if not permission_manager.validate_request(
        user_id=message['user'],
        command="delete_user",
        client=client
    ):
        return  # Permission denied, user already notified
    
    # Execute command
    delete_user_handler(client, message, context)
```

## 📚 Documentation

- [Getting Started Guide](docs/getting-started.md)
- [API Reference](docs/api-reference.md)
- [Security Guide](docs/security.md)
- [Examples](examples/)

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
pytest

# Run with coverage
pytest --cov=slack_permissions --cov-report=html

# Run integration tests
pytest tests/integration/
```

## 🔒 Security

This system implements security best practices:

- **Default Deny**: All requests denied unless explicitly permitted
- **Input Validation**: Comprehensive validation of all inputs
- **Audit Logging**: All permission decisions logged
- **Fail-Safe Design**: System fails securely on errors
- **No Information Leakage**: Error messages don't expose sensitive data

## 📈 Monitoring

Built-in metrics and logging:

```python
# Metrics exposed
permission_checks_total
permission_denials_total
command_executions_total
validation_errors_total

# Structured logging
logger.info("Permission granted", extra={
    "user_id": user_id,
    "command": command_name,
    "permission": required_permission
})
```

## 🤝 Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for development setup and guidelines.

## 📄 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## 🏆 Why This System?

Most Slack bots implement permissions as an afterthought, leading to:
- Security vulnerabilities
- Poor user experience
- Maintenance nightmares
- Inconsistent behavior

This system puts permissions first, providing:
- **Security by Design**: Every command requires explicit permission
- **Developer Experience**: Simple, declarative API
- **User Experience**: Dynamic help and clear error messages
- **Maintainability**: Clean separation of concerns
- **Scalability**: Handles complex permission hierarchies

Built from real-world experience managing enterprise Slack bots serving hundreds of users across multiple teams and environments.
